zero-intelligence approaches borrowed from physics. order arrivals and cancellations are governed by stochastic processes.

Bak et al (1997) introduced a modelling framework where orders are particles on a 1-D price lattice. Evolution of the LOB was modelled by each particle performing a random walk along the lattice. This was studied analytically and via Monte Carlo, and rejected because ultimately diffusion of active orders across different prices was not observed in the market). However, the model is still of interest because it captured some of the dynamics of LOBs (such as the hump-shaped depth profile) that were previously attributed to trader strategy, but here were reproduced via zero-intelligence.

Maslov (2000): a single trader shows up at each discrete timestep and either buys or sells (probability 0.5) at price p + random. The return series genreated by this model shows heavy tails and negative autocorrelation. Slanina (2001) replaced individual particles with a mean-field approximation and still yielded the heavy tails and negative autocorrelation. The model, however, generated mid-price returns with a Hurst exponent ~0.25, which is contrary to the empirical 0.5. Maslov's model was extended by Challet and Stinchcombe (2001) to allow multiple particles appearing, as well as particles dissipating (cancellation), and got back the ~0.5 Hurst exponent. The conclusion was that modelling cancellation was crucial to matching empirical data.

Continuous time modelling was done by Daniels et al (2003) and Smith et al (2003), which produced a master equation for L(t) assuming that market order arrivals, limit order arrivals, and cancellations all governed by independent Poisson processes. Smith et al solved the equation via mean-field approximation, and constructed estimators for properties such as mean spread, mean depth available, etc. But the assumptions required for mean-field approx poorly resemble real LOBs: eg if pi->0, then number of limit orders at a given price is either 1 or 0, which removes priority queueing and therefore a lot of trader strategy. Despite that, repoted by Farmer et al (2005) that these performed rather well at predicting mean spread. 

Cont et al (2010) produced a variant of Daniels/Smith, looking at how L(t) affected occurence frequency of events. Did not assume pi->0, thereby keeping the priority queue effect. Also replaced limit order relative price drawing from uniform distribution to a power law distribution, as observed from empirical data (somewhat debetable). Simulation exhibited the hump-shaped depth profile. This model was extended by Zhao (2010) and Toke (2011), rejecting the assumption that inter-arrival times can be modelled as Poisson processes, and replacing with Hawkes process. This process describes arrival rates as a function of previous arrivals. The model also allowed for clustering of event types. The result was a better fit to empirical data of the depth profile. Toke used multiple mutually-exciting Hawkes processes (one per type of event). 
